He
Good morning.
Chloe Thurston: I'm going to get started. Yeah. It's funny, I think everyone's coming in closer and closer canine for you.
Now,
Chloe Thurston: So we're talking about interest groups today interest groups and sort of, to some extent, social movements. I want at least explain sort of where they fit in and how to define the social movement.
Chloe Thurston: But I wanted to start ups today, first by sort of recapping sort of federalist number 10 which we read earlier.
Chloe Thurston: In the quarter and highlighting a dilemma at the core of the American political system and I mean this is also a dilemma at the core of any sort of open democracy.
Chloe Thurston: And that is in a free and open society in which people have the right to express themselves, their political views to organize and petition the government organized on behalf of causes.
Chloe Thurston: One challenge is that some segment of the population is likely to pursue their own selfish interests. Right.
Chloe Thurston: And of course, this wouldn't necessarily be a problem, except for the potential for those activities to affect other people and perhaps negatively. So a classic example of this.
Chloe Thurston: Sort of brought by political scientists for a long time for like the last century, as long as political science has existed as a discipline.
Chloe Thurston: Is trade protection and so suppose an industry wanted to protect itself from international competition and so it, press the government for care of
Chloe Thurston: Those could benefit the industry that was protected, but could also lead to higher prices for consumers. So you can see the possibility of
Chloe Thurston: You know as sort of an entity doing what it's legally allowed to do right and sort of should be allowed to do and an open democracy.
Chloe Thurston: Gaining benefits for itself that actually create some costs for the broader public sort of concentrated benefits for diffuse costs.
Chloe Thurston: And so, you know, what do you do about this. And that's what we're going to talk about today.
Chloe Thurston: But the problem is that if the government tries to prevent people from pursuing their self interest, it takes away their political freedom.
Chloe Thurston: The ability to organize again and freely express yourself is a prerequisite for open societies and this is sort of at the heart of Federalists number 10 that is that we read a few weeks ago, as I mentioned, so
Chloe Thurston: At the same time, you know, this can also lead to sort of small minorities pushing for a particular list of benefits at the cost for for others.
Chloe Thurston: So Madison foresaw this, you know, he said this was inevitable in a free system and this could be a threat to good government again by imposing costs on everybody.
Chloe Thurston: Because idea though was that you couldn't really control the causes, trying to control the causes of faction or, you know, sort of interest groups was, you know, worse to Madison then then allowing them to to to to to persist because
Chloe Thurston: Controlling the causes would undermine democracy that you just can't do that. So instead, Madison decided in terms of rights that we must instead control the effects of fashion faction.
Chloe Thurston: And so, Madison envision that republican government as a check on the worst impulses of factions. If you give responsibility for the decisions to
Chloe Thurston: A small number of representatives who are elected by a larger citizenry, then some of the problems would be east, and also because the citizenry is large and dispersed.
Chloe Thurston: Effects would be diluted by the clash of interests all over the country. The idea sort of almost having like a marketplace for interests to
Chloe Thurston: Organize and emerge, but they also offset each other to right if there's something that
Chloe Thurston: One one set of interests that emerges will be offset by another set, and then you have, you know, competition.
Chloe Thurston: And so the bottom line, then, was it in a country as big as the US many interests would arise and so many that a representative government with its own checks and balances wouldn't be dominated by any faction.
Chloe Thurston: And this is at the heart of this idea of pluralism to and we'll get back to this.
Chloe Thurston: Ideal for all of them at the end of class. But this idea that all interests are and should be free to compete for influencing the US. This is desirable for democracy.
Chloe Thurston: In part because the outcome is assumed to be a compromise and moderation.
Chloe Thurston: So I want to talk more about this though, because this sort of optimistic view of factions and the competition of factions or, you know, special interests if we want to call them.
Chloe Thurston: Is at odds with the public perception of interest groups right of special interests of the swamp sort of drain the swamp. You know, it was a very important theme of the 2016
Chloe Thurston: Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. So there's something
Chloe Thurston: That is insanely right to pod swaths of the public when it comes to the role of interest groups of lobbyists and special interests, whatever you want to call them.
Chloe Thurston: And so these observations and sort of questions about, you know, Did Madison, you know, was he too optimistic.
Chloe Thurston: Does pluralism work automatically in the way that Madison supposed are sort of questions and observations that motivate today's lecture.
Chloe Thurston: And so first of all, we're going to talk about sort of from the provide a definition of interest groups and social movements. We have a better sense of what we're talking about.
Chloe Thurston: And then I'm going to talk about their role in a democracy.
Chloe Thurston: Their historical development sort of what the sort of arc of interest group representation and mobilizations look like over time, particularly in the 20th century.
Chloe Thurston: Then about some of the representational biases, which I think are at the heart of these concerns about special interests and the sort of the major critiques against pluralism as something that empirically
Chloe Thurston: operates in the way that it was theorized by people like Madison, then we'll talk about the sorts of activities that interest groups take to try to influence policy.
Chloe Thurston: And but then I want to step back and think about
Chloe Thurston: Whether those activities are actually successful and there are a lot of questions about sort of how one would theorize influence and how on would measure it, that I think are very important.
Chloe Thurston: And that political scientists have spent a lot of time trying to disentangle. So that's the overview for today and I'm just going to get going. So what our interest groups.
Chloe Thurston: You know, the sort of the simple definition of an interest group is an organization that tries to influence the government. And I think one of the most important piece of this is that they are outside of the government. This is an important component
Chloe Thurston: They're not sort of elected officials, they're not bureaucrats, they have constituencies that they represent who are trying to influence the government
Chloe Thurston: Nonetheless, and so some examples of this, you know, the National Rifle Association, the N double A CP labor unions like AFL CIO, the Chamber of Commerce.
Chloe Thurston: The American Bar Association. It's a somewhat amorphous definition and it can include a lot of different people. This is the balloon Council, for example.
Chloe Thurston: This was created when environmentalists, led by other interest groups wanted to ban balloon releases due to environmental concerns about WHAT HAP might happen when balloons fall back to Earth and the balloon industry.
Chloe Thurston: Sort of came against this came out against this so
Chloe Thurston: I've sort of, you know, educate consumers and regulators about the wonder of oil and latex balloons and proper handling of them, but you can see there are lots of different kinds of interest groups.
Chloe Thurston: The definition itself as a bit amorphous. It can also include things that you might not readily consider to be an interest group.
Chloe Thurston: For example, a youth soccer league, the Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts, even if you belong to a fraternity or sorority, you probably have representation in Washington, you know, you're under your chartered under a national
Chloe Thurston: Organization. If you do college sports, the NC double A is its own we would consider that an interest group.
Chloe Thurston: And when we think about interests and interest groups. We also speaking of the sort of amorphous definition don't necessarily just mean groups, as in like disparate collections of people
Chloe Thurston: But also corporations public interest law firms, they don't necessarily have members, per se, but they still have constituencies that they attempt to represent in politics so
Chloe Thurston: These are loosely related to the idea of social movements and I wanted to highlight this because I think that the term gets used a lot
Chloe Thurston: But social movements are broader they're more decentralized and they're more diverse collections.
Chloe Thurston: Of interest groups and also sorts of, you know, people who might not necessarily be a member of an interest group were aligned with any interest group, but for whatever reason, decide that they, you know,
Chloe Thurston: Believe in the cause and want to sort of participate. And so here you know you can see examples like abolition women's suffrage prohibition environmental movement or recently.
Chloe Thurston: Black Lives Matter. The Tea Party and sort of more recent of the Dakota Access Pipeline, things like that. But again, it's sort of, it's a difficult. It's a loose coalition versus a you know a formal organization which an interest group is
Chloe Thurston: So,
Chloe Thurston: They have some similarities in part. They have some similarities to the roles that they play in democracy. So first of all, interest groups.
Chloe Thurston: And social movements are both forms of political participation that can be viewed as complimentary to voting and elections.
Chloe Thurston: Citizens join interest groups and participate in social movements to express their demands to decision makers and it's a less blood signal, you know, if you think about
Chloe Thurston: Voting right and I've talked about this before in the class, it can be kind of a blunt signal of your preferences or demands.
Chloe Thurston: Because you don't have a lot of choices and you don't have any clear way of saying, you know, I voted for this candidate because I care about this particular issue if candidates might have
Chloe Thurston: You know, dozens of issues that they're potentially running on so interest groups and movements can be ways of communicating sort of more specifically and concretely to elected officials and policymakers what people's demands are what those constituents demands our
Chloe Thurston: Elections also come up only periodically, which is sort of another important you know way that interest groups and social movements can factor into representing citizens in these sort of times in between elections. Right. Well, maybe something comes up.
Chloe Thurston: Before you know in that that sort of intermediary period between
Chloe Thurston: One election and another one and won't be difficult for voters to have any chance to weigh in on those sorts of things. And so again, groups and movements can be very important there.
Chloe Thurston: They also represent their constituents before the government and I think I've kind of already touched on this in the way that they said, or more direct signals to
Chloe Thurston: Governments to elected officials to policymakers, etc, they mobilize supporters to take action.
Chloe Thurston: Again, you know, I think this is very clear when we think about social movements and the types of contentious politics that they engage in by contentious politics. I mean sort of confrontational tactics THINGS ARE NOT NECESSARILY SEEN
Chloe Thurston: As the, you know, sort of,
Chloe Thurston: Go and vote and Write your congressman like will take they'll, they'll shut down roads and highways and things like that to try to
Chloe Thurston: Get attention for their cause and press their demands. So they also can bring light to issues that otherwise people might not notice
Chloe Thurston: So, for example, for all of it sort of purported failures Occupy Wall Street movement. Does anyone remember what the Occupy Wall Street movement was about, I guess it's like history for you guys.
Chloe Thurston: Okay, this is fascinating. So this movement emerged in the financial crisis and the wake of the financial crisis of 2007 2008 it was
Chloe Thurston: Supposed to represent the 99% the bottom 99% of income earners against the top 1% and their main complaint was about inequality income inequality wealth inequality and sort of you know its
Chloe Thurston: Relationship to democracy in the US. And so this was considered a failure. In fact, that sort of no one is volunteering and answer to the question might speak to that this you know it's 12 years down
Chloe Thurston: At the same time, some of the issues that they brought up have since sort of made the public agenda.
Chloe Thurston: Have been discussed by a candidate Simon sort of both sides. And again, income inequality, this idea of the 1% or 99%
Chloe Thurston: Issues of different types of public policies that might help to reduce income inequality, or at least sort of change, raise the floor.
Chloe Thurston: Or sort of issues that we now trace to Occupy Wall Street, even though the movement itself wasn't necessarily successful, it brought light to these issues.
Chloe Thurston: And then the other thing that they can do is monitor the government
Chloe Thurston: And participate in that in that way. So a good example of this would be an organization like the American Civil Liberties Union, which will bring suit against the government often or to sort of get it to
Chloe Thurston: Perhaps live up to, you know, the law to enforce laws differently if they're not being enforced appropriately on the ground in other ways. This isn't quite monitoring, but sort of working as an auxiliary
Chloe Thurston: Actually can help the government function. So, for example, the Sierra Club, which is an environmentalist group, people will volunteer in national parks to, sort of, you know, help in it like increased the sort of number of
Chloe Thurston: People supporting the operation of that park so they played many, many different roles in
Chloe Thurston: Democracy and there's been a huge increase in interest represent group representation in the United States since the 1960s. You can see here, this is from sort of the main registry that we use called The Encyclopedia of associations.
Chloe Thurston: That you're basically particularly, you know, since we basically, we call this the interest group explosion.
Chloe Thurston: And so we're not exactly sure why this is the case, but we have good evidence for one explanation. And so, people used to assume that special interest and lobbies increase the size of the government by sort of pushing for new
Chloe Thurston: Oh, and you want to say something.
Annie Bandler- She/Her/Hers: I just have a question, what is this growth of interest organization. Does that mean that there are more interest groups being created, or there's just more membership.
Chloe Thurston: In a
Chloe Thurston: Group that is actually a terrific.
Chloe Thurston: Question. Thanks, Danny. So what I'm showing here is the growth
Chloe Thurston: In terms of the number of organizations that are registered as organization or that are
Chloe Thurston: Listed as organizations in the Encyclopedia of association. So that's just the number of groups. So here you can see that, sort of, I guess you could say at the peak thermal
Chloe Thurston: Just over 22,000 that does not say anything about the numbers. And this is an excellent Ops or question because one of the things that's changed a lot is
Chloe Thurston: Despite there being more interest groups, there are fewer there's less participation in many of them. So there has been a move over the 20th century and into today from sort of what
Chloe Thurston: Political scientists like the political scientists beta Scotch pull calls activist groups without members and so there'll be the sort of professionalized groups that might claim to speak for a large constituency, but actually have very few
Chloe Thurston: Sort of on the ground members and we see this more even an organization like the National Organization for Women, which was
Chloe Thurston: Founded in the late 1960s was a very important organization during the Second Wave women's movement in the 70s.
Chloe Thurston: Had members. Then, and has a lot fewer members now as much more sort of top heavy has sort of professional activists and advocates.
Chloe Thurston: But fewer sort of grassroots members, there's actually been a decline in grassroots participation and many of these types of groups.
Chloe Thurston: Unions also for sort of reasons they're just fewer people in unions. Now that was also at a time in the 1970s. So thanks for the question.
Chloe Thurston: Yeah, and it's important to clarify. Yeah, so, um, so, you know, why do we see this proliferation of organizations. And so, one reason that political scientists and I think lay people used to think, you know, we see so many of these is that
Chloe Thurston: Organizations emerged to pressure the government to sort of do more. Right. And so they
Chloe Thurston: Increase the size of the government. And we know that the size of the government has increased in these over these decades we think about employment levels are spending or sort of regulations and we'll talk about this more actually when we get to the next. Third, of course.
Chloe Thurston: In recent decades, though, looking at this more systematically political scientists have found that new policies also draw a new groups and lobbyists into Washington. And that's because new policies can also create stakeholders, with an interest in
Chloe Thurston: Defending the status quo. So for example, the American Association of Retired people emerged following social security and medicare ins were two huge social programs to benefit the elderly.
Chloe Thurston: As a way to continue to defend the and expand those programs and the increasing complexity of government means that there are returns to hiring professionals.
Chloe Thurston: To represent you to professionals who understand how to navigate that complexity. And again, I think that, you know, that's a major reason for why we see so many organizations buying number
Chloe Thurston: This. Another thing to point out is the sort of rise and advocacy organizations over time to political scientists and sociologists to studies social movements.
Chloe Thurston: Refer especially to the 1970s as a sort of the advocacy explosion where you see this huge proliferation of new and again to answer this question. These are groups not people but of new organizations to represent issues for pertaining to civil rights to the environment to social welfare.
Chloe Thurston: So next thing I want to point out, and I think this also gets the same question.
Chloe Thurston: Sort of who's actually represented, you know, these are some some very broad figures, but you know what does the actual landscape look like and so
Chloe Thurston: One thing you can see here is that corporations and individual businesses are very over represented in the advocacy or in the sort of interest group landscape in the United States.
Chloe Thurston: Does anyone have any thoughts on why that might be why, you know, so about a third of these organizations or corporations.
Chloe Thurston: Hey,
Hank Yang: I would think that they would have the most amount of resources to hire professionals and they would have the most to gain, I guess from government regulation.
Chloe Thurston: Uh huh. Yeah, so they have a stake in it and they have the resources Janie
You want to say anything.
Janie Xu: Um, I was also going to add that because I'm their corporations they have a lot of money and they would be able to fund politicians campaigns in the future. So they would also have politicians will have something to gain from them and they know that it would be effective.
Chloe Thurston: Yeah, and so we will get to this later.
Chloe Thurston: Because there are a lot of limits on sort of how corporations can can operate in electoral politics and also sort of
Chloe Thurston: How politicians can respond to the advances of, say, you know, people working on behalf of a particular corporate interest and it
Chloe Thurston: It makes it very hard to measure empirically the influence that you know that relationship. And yet at the same time, we see a lot of activity from from business interests in June, do you want to say something.
Jiyoon Yang: Um, yeah. So similarly, along the lines of what's been already said, I think the revolving doors also most applicable with Corporation. So politicians after
Jiyoon Yang: They want to transition away from specifically being representatives or like Congress women or Congressman, they go to a corporation, so
Jiyoon Yang: These interest groups have the most intimate political connections in Washington that allowed them to gain disproportionate influence over the political process.
Chloe Thurston: That's an interesting point.
Chloe Thurston: Right, so the revolving door on the sort of
Chloe Thurston: Possibility of working, you know, you could be, say, a congressional legislative aide and sort of having the possibility of being able to even work for
Chloe Thurston: One of these entities later I wouldn't necessarily say that's why these are overrepresented but this is something that political scientists have recognized as a conflict of interest that might
Chloe Thurston: sort of explain one pathway of influence for business and sort of well resourced interests in in government is the sort of sense that if one
Chloe Thurston: cooperates with the the sort of demands or concerns raised by well resourced interest groups. They might be rewarded in the future with, you know, maybe a job later.
Chloe Thurston: So I'll talk about more pathways of interest later on in the course of things. So yeah, so there's another reason that you know there are so many corporations and that's that these are single entities, rather than large
Chloe Thurston: conglomerations of people. So, you know, you can have like a single company might have its own lobbyists.
Chloe Thurston: In DC and that's just, you know, there are a lot more single companies that have, you know, a clear cut set of their interests. Then there are giant into entities that
Chloe Thurston: Have sort of broader and more more diffuse interest. So part of it is also just the numbers issue. Okay, another sort of, oh, I hope you can see that well. So the top says class and representation by political organizations.
Chloe Thurston: And so this is another thing I want to point out. So besides sort of what you saw in the last slide where sort of participation is
Chloe Thurston: Very much heavily tilted towards business and trade associations.
Chloe Thurston: It's also sort of when we think about the people who participate. It's very much skewed by income occupation and education are sorted out the people
Chloe Thurston: Who's being represented by these organizations and more organizations represent the better off or higher income more sort of prestigious occupations or professional occupations.
Chloe Thurston: And more highly educated than then those who are sort of worse off. And those. And so you can see this here. So, this figure, the top shows the adult population in the US.
Chloe Thurston: This is kind of old. The most recent survey.
Chloe Thurston: By flaws mandate radiant Aruba, and so this shows the distribution of the adult population in 2,064% of people were in the labor force and various kinds of jobs 3% were out for about a third were retired.
Chloe Thurston: And so, and these are the different you know occupational categories or statuses of the of these groups.
Chloe Thurston: What we see in the bottom or who membership organization or the percentage of membership organizations.
Chloe Thurston: In DC and you can see that sort of executives are more are over represented professionals are way over represented have a category, you know, versus any of these other ones.
Chloe Thurston: So third participation is also skewed by income. And so this is asking people, you know, do they participate. And so this goes to answer the question. Again, this is about people.
Chloe Thurston: And what people do. This is not about what groups, you know, or the number of groups or organizations but
Chloe Thurston: This was from a survey asking people, you know, if they participated in different kinds of political organizations or really any political organization.
Chloe Thurston: And then looked at by income report file. So you can see, you know, whether they said they were affiliated with an organization, whether they attended meetings, whether they were active and whether they served on board and as you can. And this is done by quintiles on the x axis and so
Chloe Thurston: As you can see sort of this skews up right the sort of the higher up you get in the income distribution, the more likely you are to answer that you've done these things.
Chloe Thurston: Any idea, you know, why does anyone have any, any ideas for why that might be the case, why participation of these organizations. Okay. Lisa and then Sam and then Andrew
Lee Ajisafe: I imagine people hire more time free
Lee Ajisafe: Groups and also more knowledge of what these groups can you
Chloe Thurston: Yeah.
Chloe Thurston: That's great. Yeah, that's right.
Chloe Thurston: So time is a big part of this and political knowledge.
Chloe Thurston: That's what did I say was next.
Chloe Thurston: Hello.
Sam Keimweiss: Yeah, I
Sam Keimweiss: Think. Hey, uh, yeah, I'm just, I agree with me, but also that
Sam Keimweiss: Some of these organizations require money in order to actually be a part of it, especially if you're going to serve on a board with them, but also just in general union dues, things like that.
Sam Keimweiss: Yeah, um, and these things can add up for people in lower income.
Chloe Thurston: Yeah, that's a great point.
Chloe Thurston: So their
Chloe Thurston: membership dues and we'll get to. You know why that can be a huge barrier to participating in the next few slides to
Chloe Thurston: And Sam mentioned, I think you're the first person dimension. This is I've taught this course but
Chloe Thurston: You know, serving on boards can be very expensive. And so it shouldn't be that surprising that it's something that's much more common among the sort of top 20% Andrew, did you want to say something to you.
Andrew Neville: Yeah, I was gonna say, like you said, we saw on the other side that corporations professionals were over represented and that oftentimes the people in the highest income quintile are also going to be members of those corporations or business interests. They can also have a larger steak.
Chloe Thurston: Yes.
Chloe Thurston: Yeah, no, that's exactly that was one of the other. Yeah, that's right. So it also might be that sort of the more resources you have the higher you
Andrew Neville: Perceive the stakes to be for participating. Right.
Chloe Thurston: And the, sort of, again, the lower, you know, the fewer, you have to lower the stakes. Same. We can also see that sort of the perception of efficacy of idea that, you know,
Chloe Thurston: Your political actions matter and it can have an out you know matter to sort of outcomes but also matter to sort of the government actually responding to your concerns.
Chloe Thurston: Is higher among those who have more resources. And so, time, money, education, these perceptions of efficacy and these perceptions of how high the stakes are and you know they might actually also be really high.
Chloe Thurston: We don't know are all reasons for why participation might skew or what we, we know that it does. It does exhibit in skew.
Chloe Thurston: Chat Snyder says the heavenly chorus of pluralism sings with a strict upper crust accent.
Chloe Thurston: So just to highlight again. Who's represented businesses and this which organizations are over represented, it's easier for concentrated interests to organize them for diffuse ones and more about that in a second.
Chloe Thurston: Participation skewed by income occupation and education. Again, historically, there's been a huge increase in representation, since the 60s.
Chloe Thurston: And most mostly economic based groups, but also advocacy groups as I showed before. So I'm still leads to sort of an analytical puzzle that I keep
Chloe Thurston: hinting at, and that we talked about the beginning of class to something that Madison and de Tocqueville, you know, they sort of differ and their appraisal of whether factions are good or bad for democracy.
Chloe Thurston: De Tocqueville, we talked about earlier in the class came to visit us in the 1840s and he characterize the us as a nation of joiners just really pressed by this
Chloe Thurston: He didn't use the word factions like Mattson used and you know pejoratively I think in Madison's case.
Chloe Thurston: But he's describing the same thing. He was just like blown over by all of these different local political associations that Americans dying.
Chloe Thurston: And he comes to the US and he's really impressed with this with American civic involvement. He thinks this is the heart of American democracy and sort of its most valuable characteristic
Chloe Thurston: Yet despite their differences, a sort of more positive and negative interpretation of this type of
Chloe Thurston: Organization Madison into total share one thing in common, which was their assumption that the formation of groups or factions, you want to call them that, based on shared interest is natural and inevitable.
Chloe Thurston: We know it's not, though, right, we know that it's puzzling to social scientists, because we read Olson earlier on in the class when we read pardon.
Chloe Thurston: But especially because we read Olson, who talks about you know why it's actually very difficult and not inevitable.
Chloe Thurston: For groups to form to act collectively to pursue their interests and there are a lot of challenges to this first
Chloe Thurston: People have to recognize that they share an interest so they can protect potentially organized around and we call this sort of a latent there might be sort of latent interest that you have
Chloe Thurston: With others that you haven't quite recognized or articulated and because you haven't thought about that shared interest.
Chloe Thurston: You have no basis for mobilizing around it. For example, as far as I know, the members of this class haven't started a union to counter my disproportionate power.
Chloe Thurston: Over you know the this course, but you guys could, you could form a union and lobby. Right. You could lobby be directly. You could lobby more it
Chloe Thurston: Seems like a lot of things going on right now. Those. Um, but, you know, but you guys also, you know, have shared interests that you haven't necessarily
Chloe Thurston: Mobilized around and it might be because you know you don't think the stakes are very high. But it also might just be that you know you haven't thought about it.
Chloe Thurston: Of course, there are also collective action problems that organizations and movements have to overcome that's beyond even figuring out that they have you know a shared interest in common that is worth pursuing in the first place.
Chloe Thurston: Okay. Does anyone remember what the free rider problem as Can someone who hasn't spoken yet so briefly explain it again to the class.
Chloe Thurston: Laila.
Lyla Bariso: I'm so people declined to participate in groups because is already so other than so many other Members that they just rely on others to do their duty for them because someone else will eventually do it.
Chloe Thurston: That's great. Yeah. Do you want to give an example.
Geo Jeanlouis: An example, the free rider problem kind of be like a group project and school where I'm like, all students have to work together for like the collective of completing the project, but I'm
Geo Jeanlouis: Like, like a certain student would like not do the work, because the others could do their work for them. So they kind of like free ride on other students work.
Chloe Thurston: That's right, yeah. So right
Chloe Thurston: So the idea that they're like, ah, do you know quite to is that
Chloe Thurston: You know shirking is possible. You know, that's always a consideration and concern. Oh, Harrison also. Thank you. Harrison for this in the chat as well. Individuals who don't participate
Chloe Thurston: Can you know they might believe their individual effort has no effect on the outcome as a whole. And it's true.
Chloe Thurston: Probably right that you know individually, especially in a large group your individual contribution probably doesn't affect the collective outcome.
Chloe Thurston: But if everyone thinks like that, then nothing ever happens right because then nobody participates in the production of that, you know, collective good.
Chloe Thurston: And so again we see this as something that really relates to sides to so geo pointed out, the idea of sort of group work right a group project.
Chloe Thurston: It's funny because even in, you know, a group of for it. I've seen this. It's one reason why don't do a lot of great projects is, you know, you can have someone who decides to free ride to sort of shirk and sort of benefit from whatever comes out of the collective you know outcome, but
Chloe Thurston: It should be more difficult to do that in a smaller setting because it's easier to monitor, it's easier for the other groups to monitor and it's easier for the group members to sanction in different ways.
Chloe Thurston: You know, a single person in a group of four versus a single person in a group of, you know, a million are thinking about, like, you know, local election or city election, I suppose.
Chloe Thurston: So organizations and movements have to overcome free rider problems. And so I wanted to talk about a few different ways of doing this. But we have whoops. There we go.
Chloe Thurston: So, but the main sort of one of those solutions to the free rider problem is what we call selective back and these are benefits that, again, the problem with, you know, the free rider problem at the core of it is the idea that you can benefit from the
Chloe Thurston: group's efforts effort without necessarily contributing to it so selective benefit is a benefit that you only receive if you contribute to the group's effort.
Chloe Thurston: And there are sort of four main types of selective benefits that political scientists and sociologists have identified, although
Chloe Thurston: You could probably think of other ones, but one is informational so most business and professional associations, as you saw, professional associations are well over represented
Chloe Thurston: Provide things like magazines newsletters or other sorts of information and literature.
Chloe Thurston: The American Political Science Association, which I belong to provides access to it sort of major journals. It's professional fields journals.
Chloe Thurston: And also access to information about jobs. So that's a big incentive to join the organization because otherwise you don't have access to this specific information.
Chloe Thurston: material benefits are another type of selective benefit that can help solve the free rider problem. For example, the AARP, the American Association of Retired people
Chloe Thurston: Offers insurance for its members, different kinds of like deals on insurance. And so again, it's just like, you know, maybe it's financially now in your interest to join where even whereas if you didn't have that incentive, then you know why pay the dues.
Chloe Thurston: We also talk about something called solidarity benefits and this refers to the benefits of belonging to a community of share principles and interests and the idea is that members join for the benefits
Chloe Thurston: Of grip distinction and status that result from being a member. It's great to say that you're a member. So, um, so I am a member of the American
Chloe Thurston: Association of members of the Institute for Advanced Study
Chloe Thurston: And I get a small for being a member and I get to associate with an organization that Einstein was part of and I can feel good about myself for that are like, you know, I must be an Einsteins
Chloe Thurston: Class, because you know I am associated with this organization. Um, but, you know, you get to say that you are a member. And then finally, sort of poor, poor posted that I always pronounce this wrong.
Chloe Thurston: And that's the idea that you're participating and something bigger, you know, maybe you just really want to be a part of something. Maybe you're serving in a cause or principle that you're passionate about.
Chloe Thurston: The fun thing about being at home today, I can just do show and tell. But here's my voted sticker. What you know if we thought about this as a selective benefit, what role is playing
Chloe Thurston: Lee.
Lee Ajisafe: I guess it's signaling that you're the type of person who cares about political processes.
Chloe Thurston: Yeah, it's signaling that you're sort of you're not a shocker. Right. Unless you bought a bunch of I voted stickers
Chloe Thurston: On the black market and, you know, didn't vote. But yeah, I mean it's a sort of, it's like a signal. It's a sort of a sense of, you know, solidarity, maybe with other people who've done this or, you know, or it's sort of showing the kind of person you might might be, um,
Chloe Thurston: You can see this in lots of different examples. So if you think about it, if anyone has like an NPR.
Chloe Thurston: That's a selective benefit that sort of signaling something about you know your values of who you support, you get to walk around with it if you want. I actually years ago joined the AARP
Chloe Thurston: So that I could get a selective benefit and then use it in class as an example.
Chloe Thurston: But turned out to be a really crappy tote bag but they sent but didn't even say a RP on it. So now I just have to use the mail, like it.
Chloe Thurston: Like almost every week, asking me to renew my membership, so I don't recommend doing that but anyhow around up so far we've looked at what interest groups and social movements are, how they fit into the American political tradition.
Chloe Thurston: How they overcome collective action problems questions remain though. And this is what I want to spend the rest of the class talking about
Chloe Thurston: First, you know, how do they actually tried to affect politics because we only really talked about what they are and like who they represent. And then second, do those efforts actually produce any results right because you could
Chloe Thurston: You know, maybe you could try really hard to affect politics and have no effect or you know your own sort of outcome, the outcome that you are seeking
Chloe Thurston: Could materialize, but it might not necessarily be attributable to the efforts of those interest groups. There are lots of other causes. And so these are difficult questions to answer. And we're going to start to answer them today.
Chloe Thurston: So first of all, pathways of influence. So we think about influence in a few different ways but one sort of distinction, political scientists often make is between inside or direct forms of lobbying and outside lobbying. I'll talk about outside lobbying. And the next, next slide.
Chloe Thurston: But I have this picture here, because the term lobbying itself dates back to the 1640s. When the lobbies of the chambers of the British Parliament.
Chloe Thurston: Were a hotbed of political wrangling the lobbies of the existed unofficially in the US, pretty much from its own origins
Chloe Thurston: In 1792 veterans of the Continental Army hired William hole to specifically lobby the new Congress for additional compensation. So they have a long history in the United States as well.
Chloe Thurston: And so there are lots of different ways that groups can engage in direct lobbying, they can testify in Congress or hearings.
Chloe Thurston: They can contact Congress or agency personnel or even helped draft legislation or regulations.
Chloe Thurston: They present research to the government and it campaign contributions are served on public advisory boards or even participate in litigation or policy, as I mentioned before, for example, the ACLU
Chloe Thurston: So I'm going to show you one example of direct lobbying and while you're watching this, this involves Mr. Rogers, the childhood. I don't know. Do you guys grow up on Mr. Rogers at all.
Chloe Thurston: Daniel tiger.
Chloe Thurston: Okay, leave. This is for you. We know. So I hope you guys know who Mr. Rogers is but he wasn't, you know, like a very important figure in public. Thank you live.
Chloe Thurston: In public television from the 1960s onward, and even sort of the show. Daniel tiger which my children love. And as far as they know that's the only show that exists.
Chloe Thurston: Is is a spin off of Mister Rogers neighborhood. And so I'm going to show you this. It's a little bit long. It's about seven minutes. Thank you. It is a wonderful day. So, um, but what I want you to think about while you're watching. This is, um, what sorts of things.
Chloe Thurston: What is the value of Mr. Rogers his testimony. What does he seem to be trying to accomplish.
Chloe Thurston: And I want you to sort of observe what's going on. And you know how influences maybe trying to operate.
Chloe Thurston: What sorts of things, or maybe being exchanged between Mr. Rogers and legislators the sensor CD. But I mean, like, you know, like, what are they doing like what's going on. What do you observe what can you tell us about
Chloe Thurston: Interest groups and influence or the practice of political influence in in politics in American politics. So here we go. We're going to try to make this work, new share
Mr. Rogers is also a champion of public television a medium that was the perfect fit for his groundbreaking approach to education.
But just two years after Congress approved federal funding that could help further that cause. Mr. Rogers to lose it.
So in 1969 he brought his neighborhoods message to Washington, as he famously testified before I send it subcommittee that was considering cutting funding for public television. All right, right, you got the fall
Senator pescatore
This is a philosophical statement and would take about 10 minutes to read. So I will not do that.
One of the first things that a child learns in a healthy family is trust and I trust what you have said that you will read this. It's very important to me. I care deeply about children.
My first children make it happy if you read it.
I just like to talk about it if I
Have my first children's program was on w Q amp D 15 years ago and its budget was $30 now with the help of the Sears Roebuck foundation and national educational television as well as
All of the affiliated stations each station pays to show our program. It's a unique kind of funding in educational television.
With this help now our program has a budget of $6,000
It may sound like quite a difference but $6,000 pays for less than two minutes of cartoon.
Two minutes of animated
What I sometimes say bombardment. I'm very much concerned as I know you are about what's being delivered to our children in this country. And I've worked in the field of child development for six years now trying to understand the inner needs of children.
We deal with such things as
As the inner drama of childhood. We don't have to BOP somebody over the head to make him to make drama on the screen. We deal with such things as getting a haircut.
Or the feelings about brothers and sisters and the kind of anger that arises in simple family situations and we speak to it constructively how long the program is it it's a half hour every day.
Most channels schedule it in the noon time as well as in the evening.
W eta here has scheduled in the late afternoon. Could we get a copy of this so that we can see it.
And maybe not today. But I'd like to see the program. I'd like very much for you to see the program itself or any one of them say
We, we made 100 programs for E. N. The eastern educational network. And then when the money ran out people in Boston and Pittsburgh and Chicago all came to the fore and said, we've got to have more of this neighborhood expression of care and this is what
This is what I give I give an expression of care every day to each child to help him realize that he is unique.
I am the Program by saying you've made this day, a special day by just your being you. There's no person in the whole world like you and I, like you just the way you all
And I feel that if we in public television can only make it clear that feelings are mentionable and manageable. We will have done a great service for mental health.
I think that it's much more dramatic that two men could be working out their feelings of anger.
Much more dramatic than showing something of gunfire.
I'm constantly concerned about what our children are seeing
And for 15 years I have tried in this country and Canada to present what I feel is a meaningful expression of k
Do you read
I'm the host. Yes, and I do all the puppets and I write all the music and I write all the scribes supposed to be a pretty tough guy and this the first time I've had goosebumps. For the last two days.
Well, I'm grateful, not only for your goosebumps, but for your interest in in our kind of communication, but I tell you the words of one of the songs, which I feel is very important. Yes.
This has to do with that good feeling of control, which I feel that the children need to know it's there.
And it starts out. What do you do with the mad that you feel and that first line came straight from a child, I work with children doing puppets and
In very personal communication with small groups. What do you do with the mad that you feel when you feel so mad. You could fight.
When the whole wide world seems oh so wrong and nothing you do seems very right. What do you do, do you punch a bag. Do you pound some clay or some dough.
Do you round up friends for a game of tag or see how fast you go. It's great to be able to stop when you plan. The thing that throng
And be able to do something else instead. And think this song, I can stop when I want to can stop when I wish I can stop stop stop anytime
And what a good feeling to feel like this and know that the feeling is really mine know that there's something deep inside that helps us become what we can for a girl can be someday. A lady and the boy can be someday. A man. I think it's wonderful.
I think it's wonderful.
Looks like you just end the $20 million
Chloe Thurston: Well, thanks for watching that I like to get all the way to the end, because I think the outcome is really interesting. Okay, so can everyone see the slides that I saw last week. Okay, I only realized after when I read through the Chat Transcripts that nobody could see
Chloe Thurston: Oh, great. Okay. Oh.
Chloe Thurston: Well, this was intended for you guys to for your social and emotional growth. And you can see that that Congressman was experiencing some of that at the time, too. So what did you observe from that, though, you know like what stood out to you as it. I mean, as it pertains to sort of
Chloe Thurston: American politics and what we're talking about today what's what stood out to people.
Chloe Thurston: Elise
Elise Lamarre: I found it really interesting how quickly the
Elise Lamarre: Congress in at the end was just like, Okay, you got the money and which really does not happen, especially in the way that we socialized politics today.
Elise Lamarre: But I also thought we still do see like these important kind of emotional testimonies happen still like in our politics today. And that's a large part
Elise Lamarre: But I think it's a little different because there's like social media and news consumption is really different. So testimonies are more like soundbites
Elise Lamarre: Yeah, normally use for like a minute. Like, no one would really watch the nine minute testimony anymore.
Elise Lamarre: Have so many unless they're like a Political Junkie. So just a different
Chloe Thurston: Way. Yeah, I'll say a few things about that. So I think, you know, you mentioned a few things. At least you know about sort of the, the role of like
Chloe Thurston: Persuasion right sort of the outcome. Seems like something that could only happen in Mister Rogers neighborhood like is imaginary neighborhood, right, we're like at the end. This congressman with tears in his eyes. Is this you know you have as much money as you want.
Chloe Thurston: Like that's but but you see the sort of this role of persuasion, you know it's happening at the time. And there are questions about, you know, whether you know it's it's
Chloe Thurston: Something you can really or should you know realistically expect to see you today and we'll talk about, you know, changes in Congress and also the polarization landscape and what that means for policymaking later on in the class.
Chloe Thurston: But they're sort of read it, watching this hearing versus reading the text of testimony in more recent congressional hearings is very different experience and you don't see those types of
Chloe Thurston: You see something that's much more like you know preaching to the choir, or you don't necessarily see
Chloe Thurston: You don't really see persuasion happening in quite the same way in a lot of different fields, again, this was also selected, you know, deliberately for interesting and for it sort of showing that immediate
Chloe Thurston: Reaction, and even in the 60s, you know, it's not that frequent. That's something like this would happen. But, but, yes, there are big differences.
Chloe Thurston: That are related to the fact that, like policymaking as much more of a partisan process now. And so there's probably less room for those kinds of appeals. Good. Anything else stand up with them. So you had your hand up as well.
Vanessa Kjeldsen: I just thought it was amazing how genuine and raw all of it was. I feel like oftentimes you think of like the professionalism and sort of the cold callous nature that these
Vanessa Kjeldsen: Media Matters of affair handled, especially in regards to like we want money, but he never talked necessarily about the specifics of money.
Vanessa Kjeldsen: Was all about the meeting. I mean, he read a children's song and it worked. And I just think it's really interesting because I feel like that.
Vanessa Kjeldsen: Not to call it like a tactic, but I guess really that type of person and that type of persuasion is not common anymore. I don't think there's probably common then either. Um, but it's just amazing how well it did work for him like he played to his strengths
Vanessa Kjeldsen: Yeah, you know, a different type of performance. He did his typical show
Chloe Thurston: And the best right
Vanessa Kjeldsen: We did play to the strengths. It's an
Chloe Thurston: Interesting tactic. It's very similar to his own show.
Chloe Thurston: Harrison says, you know, can show that theater is often said to be integral to Paul, this is Theater. Yeah.
Chloe Thurston: And this was also but straight to the point in genuine
Chloe Thurston: You know, and so
Chloe Thurston: You know, there is no fear here. It was a very optimistic take we did you want to say something to
Lee Ajisafe: Know my thoughts for mostly
Lee Ajisafe: Pepper knows how genuine and emotional appeal once
Chloe Thurston: I'm gonna thank you. I'm going to highlight a few other things that I
Chloe Thurston: Think are sort of interesting. And that sort of speak to what outside law or sorry inside lobbying shouldn't be on this one yet does
Chloe Thurston: And so, you know, he provided information about the funding basis and the costs right he provided information that Congress doesn't necessarily have sort of, you know, at its fingertips, it could get that information, but it's useful to have it presented by by someone
Chloe Thurston: He you know also sort of you know the the congressman that he's talking to didn't seem to know very much about this issue, right.
Chloe Thurston: He didn't know that Mr. Rogers was the host of the show.
Chloe Thurston: And that he also did the puppets. You know, so he provided a lot of information about this thing that probably, you know, millions of kids over it, you know, and families are aware of and so
Chloe Thurston: He provided information to a policymaker that that policymaker might otherwise not pay much attention to or not have, you know, and but that person is in a position of authority to make decisions for
Chloe Thurston: Over you know these kinds of resources. Another thing to think about. And I think this comes up in some of your discussion about sort of his, his tactics.
Chloe Thurston: Or you know his approach, you could say that, you know, he's also kind of trying here to pose himself, and I think it's genuine, I don't mean to say this in a cynical way at all, as a representative for kids contrast right so kids do not have in kids don't vote.
Chloe Thurston: And then this is an interest. This is a constituency that very poorly represented in American politics.
Chloe Thurston: And other political context, the kids generally are poorly represented, but they're worse represented in the US that another political context. So as people like political science, Julia Lynch should have shown
Chloe Thurston: And so, you know, one of the things he's doing is he's trying to represent their interests you. So it's sort of like a proxy right and he talks about sort of
Chloe Thurston: You know the benefits that his programming provides to them and sort of the alternatives. Right. You know, this is different than more violent
Chloe Thurston: Programming or then commercial program and that doesn't necessarily have the incentives to to sort of invest in you know this like social and emotional
Chloe Thurston: Content. And so, you know, I think these are all really interesting you know aspects of of influence and lobbying again, sort of, you know, there's this persuasion.
Chloe Thurston: That's happening but also this idea that, you know, interest groups or, you know, interest representatives, he's representing representing PBS this time.
Chloe Thurston: Can also sort of provide representation for groups that are otherwise not really represented in politics Snapchats night or kind of talks about the scope of representation in the piece that I had to read
Chloe Thurston: In addition to inside lobbying is another form of lobbying outside lobbying. I'll explain this photo right here. This is from 1989 well what looks like is what what is happening in here somewhere else want to explain at least what's going on.
Chloe Thurston: Okay, yeah. Oh, it
Owen Elton (he/him): Looks like people protesting.
Owen Elton (he/him): I assume it's probably something to do with like Social Security
Owen Elton (he/him): Medicare now.
Chloe Thurston: Do you think that oh and
Owen Elton (he/him): I'm one of the sciences, something like something don't something the seniors.
Owen Elton (he/him): But also, that's just tends to be a very integral issue for a lot of older Americans, and I know it affects their voting patterns, a lot like depending on how that's like main an issue or like what people stances are up for election so
Chloe Thurston: Yeah I referred to as the gray lobby so
Chloe Thurston: Yeah, but this is, you know, this is a group of senior citizens. This is from 1989 and they were protesting.
Chloe Thurston: Their congressional representatives Dan Raskin kowroski who's was a representative side of Chicago.
Chloe Thurston: There was protesting and support for an extra insurance surtax which is like something that seems pretty below the radar right and technical not very important, but they recognize this is something that
Chloe Thurston: Is going to put a pass on to them. And so he isn't a meeting in his home office with some constituents and as heading out about 15 to 20 senior citizens mob his car and he ends up hitting that little old lady.
Chloe Thurston: And she's fine. Just barely doesn't get hurt, but it gets captured by TV cameras and not just Rostenkowski but other members of Congress, end up changing their vote and repealing the insurance store tax that they had already passed in the House.
Chloe Thurston: You know, because of this incident and this incident itself though, I think it's important to know it wasn't spontaneous.
Chloe Thurston: There was an organization that was representing senior citizens and facilitated the protests, they probably did not intend to, you know, for the little old lady to get hit by the car.
Chloe Thurston: That was probably an intentional or unintentional, but they invited the media, you know, they wanted the media to see them mobbing this car.
Chloe Thurston: And you know why, you know why would they want the media to see them. What, why would they, you know, lots of media for this. So, question for you guys. We
Lee Ajisafe: I guess in the last Mr. Rogers clip and image you can see how integral objects and visuals are to convincing. I guess this is a facet of persuasion, not necessarily politics.
Chloe Thurston: Yeah well so persuasion, maybe getting attention, um, you we did you want to say something.
Yui Ginther: Yeah, basically, it would mobilize people who didn't know about it. Um, but would it be interested in the outcome and by getting a larger audience, it would mobilize larger percent of the population.
Chloe Thurston: Yeah, so it draws attention to something that might be important to a small group of people, but you know could maybe be important to more people if they, you know, saw this and knew it.
Chloe Thurston: Or you know you know this. These are terrible optics, right. So,
Chloe Thurston: Even if it without knowing you know what the particulars of the issue are
Chloe Thurston: You probably don't. You know, you're probably against like senior citizens getting hit by a car or, you know, anything that like is attracting this much rage from your grandparents. Right. And so part of this is just to attract publicity.
Chloe Thurston: And to get more public support which then in turn pressures elected officials, which we saw here.
Chloe Thurston: And so we think about outside lobbying, you know, going public. Like, this is the sort of the main way that outside of lobbying work so that it can happen in different ways. It can happen by
Chloe Thurston: Talking to the press, sort of, you know, expanding attention to certain issues by mobilizing your members to do things like mob this car by organizing letter writing campaigns.
Chloe Thurston: Publicizing voting records of candidates. This is something that the NRA was very like well known for. They give
Chloe Thurston: Candidate sort of greats right like a, b, c, d. To summarize how they vote on gun related issues. So that voters would have more information, but also to try to hold
Chloe Thurston: Elected officials accountable, because now they know that their vote is going to be tracked right
Chloe Thurston: Endorsing candidates protesting advertising doesn't always work and also contributing personnel at volunteer to two campaigns.
Chloe Thurston: And so, again, the sort of the thing that the thing that really matters for the strategy is this idea of attracting publicity and public support and then bringing attention sort of
Chloe Thurston: Not, you know, not directly by talking to members of Congress, but like indirectly by appealing to people who will then pressure members of Congress. Can anyone think of
Chloe Thurston: When this might not like or do you think there are certain types of causes or organizations that are more suited to this and types that might be less suited. Can anyone think of an example maybe put it in this chat or volunteer one right now.
Chloe Thurston: Like what kind of interest group or effort might have difficulty.
Chloe Thurston: Attaining their goal by getting public Andrew
Andrew Neville: This might be a little general but one like who's like is considered a little more quote unquote radical, whether it's on one side of the other, like if they have such like sort of a smaller following
Andrew Neville: Or they can be tough getting like mass publicity behind it to fit a lot of people don't support their interest.
Period.
Chloe Thurston: Yeah, so something that and I think this goes to Owens point to something that maybe isn't very supported by the public might not be something that you want to get the public to do. Um, you know another thing. And I mentioned here, the
Chloe Thurston: BP example where So BP tried to like
Chloe Thurston: Get the they tried to, like, make a sort of beyond petroleum advertising campaign to sort of like show their, their green credentials and it kind of backfired.
Chloe Thurston: It just sort of drew more public attention to the fact that this was a an oil company. So, you know, we also think that it's a lot harder for
Chloe Thurston: For some businesses to do this kind of mobilization, that's not always true. The American Bankers Association, for example, order organized to let her drive of 22 million depositors to send postcards to Congress.
Chloe Thurston: To try to prevent a bill from from getting passed and they were able to do this because they were able to sort of appeal to the interests of those 22 million people to, you know, there was a sort of a common cause. But so
Chloe Thurston: Yes, more extreme groups can also backfire fire and having people like maybe a politician or a cause that you know they were trying to avoid more. So another strategy outside lobbying involves campaign contributions.
Chloe Thurston: Through political action committees or independent expenditures or campaign activism.
Chloe Thurston: And you can see this here. This is from I think 2014 but these are just sort of
Chloe Thurston: Contributions
Chloe Thurston: Top top sorry political action committee contributions to candidates.
Chloe Thurston: Here we can see sort of the growth of lobbying and spending and lobbying is more of an inside strategy, but I want to sort of show sort of what some of this stuff looks like over time.
Chloe Thurston: Also provide and just just sort of a last one. If you want to think about lobbying expenditures by sector sort of business real estate finance, insurance, health communications are at the top of this. This is from the Center for Responsive Politics.
Chloe Thurston: So all the sort of resources, though, that go into trying to influence the political process. I think raises like some really obvious questions about, sort of, you know, what are people actually trying to buy groups trying to buy
Chloe Thurston: What are and you know do their efforts, whether it's sort of campaign spending or lobbying or, you know, this more protest kind of tactics like the
Chloe Thurston: The, the senior citizens and the Rostenkowski example, you know, do you guys work. And so this is what I want to spend the very last part of class talking about. And if we have time, I'll bring in a case.
Chloe Thurston: But we'll, we'll see. But anyhow, so you know I gave us, you know, an overview of how they attempt to influence politics, but I think that what we want to do now is sort of think about
Chloe Thurston: How influence actually works and try to think about it sort of from like a more social scientific standpoint and not and we have to sort of remove our sort of love for Mr. Rogers is, you know, and passionate testimony.
Chloe Thurston: For a second to think more concretely, or I guess signed
Chloe Thurston: So here's an example. I want you to think that. Okay, so we're back to our old standby the balloon council. And let's suppose that the balloon Council gave money to a member of Congress.
Chloe Thurston: You're just going to suppose that they're not going to make it more technical than this to get to the legal part but just suppose they give money to Congress and it's, it's, you know, they can the Council can do that directly
Chloe Thurston: Okay, the member of Congress then votes for the balloon councils backed bill question. You know, as you know, what can we conclude from this does it show that the balloon Council bought the vote.
Chloe Thurston: Well, I think that this actually goes to some fundamental challenges of measuring influence and up, you know, the short answer is not necessarily right you know what if the recipient already likes balloons, you know,
Chloe Thurston: One thing that we know is that a lot of interest groups.
Chloe Thurston: Tend to donate money or sort of, you know, support people who already support them in fact quid pro quo. Actual, literal vote buying is definitely illegal.
Chloe Thurston: So this is not something we would see any ways where we would expect to see, you know, we would expect to see this very rarely and hopefully
Chloe Thurston: Reacted to but you know so but we we can't figure out influenced by thinking about this is just a straight up quid pro quo where someone maybe donates to a campaign and then get sort of what they want, because we don't actually know what those
Chloe Thurston: Interests or preferences were ahead of time. We don't know if they're lobbying your allies, we actually do know.
Chloe Thurston: More systematically that groups do tend to lobby their allies. They don't engage very much in persuasion. They don't try to, they don't lobby their opponents, because it's very difficult to persuade their opponents.
Chloe Thurston: So, you know, we would need to delve into all of this in it, no further. And so, you know, how would we know this.
Chloe Thurston: If we wanted to know whether money and these resources by votes, you know, we would want to know if someone was voting differently than they otherwise would vote.
Chloe Thurston: Maybe we want to see if you know they voted differently than they did in their career beforehand, you know, and then
Chloe Thurston: Or maybe if their vote seemed to differ a lot from what their constituents wanted we could maybe, you know, start to infer that there are some influence that's going on. But again, it's very challenging complicated thing to
Chloe Thurston: To measure. And so, you know, the point I want to make here. And I think it's an important one for just sort of like sharpening the way you think about this, because I think that there's a tendency to especially well we know this to
Chloe Thurston: Political scientists have studied this, but
Chloe Thurston: There are really, really high profile incidences of like egregious influence peddling. Um, but that doesn't those high profile incidents is don't necessarily tell us about like every day or average
Chloe Thurston: Type, you know, effectiveness of these types of activities. But one thing to point out again is the confluence of interests doesn't necessarily imply influence groups again lobby their allies.
Chloe Thurston: And as I mentioned, you can't trade money for votes. There are lots of sides of different issues so often and in sort of very highly salient issues.
Chloe Thurston: Sides can be pretty evenly matched in terms of resources. This is another reason why it's hard to say that resources themselves to
Chloe Thurston: directly translate into outcomes, as I mentioned groups often our allies and campaign finance might also be an unfair signal of electoral influence in part because
Chloe Thurston: It might sort of make sense strategically to support someone who's very likely to win, even if they, you know, with hopes that that helps you later.
Chloe Thurston: Even if they don't necessarily, you know, maybe they're not like the preferred candidate. Maybe you're not helping your funding who's likely to win versus sort of funding to specifically
Chloe Thurston: Get a candidate to win.
Chloe Thurston: So final thing to note on this is a lot of research. So this is sort of these are the conclusions of a lot of research into this issue, which is obviously important one, and has generated a lot of attention by political scientists
Chloe Thurston: In many cases, most research fails to find a smoking gun linking money to policy outcomes. And again, there are very big exceptions to this, we're going to talk about
Chloe Thurston: A case that's both, you know, shares some of these these findings are results, but also it is more of an exception in other ways.
Chloe Thurston: Oops, I'm gonna skip that. So a case study and influence for last 10 minutes or so.
Chloe Thurston: So what I described above, you know, the thing that political scientists have a lot of trouble establishing if there's a clear relationship between the resources that an interest group expense on politics.
Chloe Thurston: And political influence in the actual outcomes that even when the outcomes match with that interest group wants. It's really hard for us to say whether it was because of those resources or because of something else.
Chloe Thurston: It's inferential at different a difficult challenge, but that's also a very thin view of interest.
Chloe Thurston: You know, it's a very much a sort of a transactional few we don't see very many quid pro quo we you know we see very few actual quid pro quo transactions, because they're not really legal
Chloe Thurston: But we also you know even sort of moving beyond the, you know, strict definition of quid pro quo to sort of more legal versions of that.
Chloe Thurston: We have a lot of difficulty actually finding you know substantial evidence that happens.
Chloe Thurston: But again, this is a fin you have interest in fewer call and early day of days of class, we talked about some other views of influence. Right.
Chloe Thurston: So we're going back to events and the three dimensions of power and I hope this makes more sense now. But so you should recall the first mentioned right so he defined. This is the relation among people
Chloe Thurston: The idea of a has power over be to the extent that she can get be to do something that he would not otherwise do
Chloe Thurston: And this is, you know, in some ways what people are sort of thinking about when they're thinking about influence and interest group influence. And again, this is the type of influence, that's very difficult to
Chloe Thurston: That there's not as much evidence for it. As you know, we thought there might be given the sort of amount of money, for example, that goes through politics.
Chloe Thurston: So an example of this, though, you know, conflict between two people in a meeting and the outcome, you know, shows maybe who has power or negotiation or vote.
Chloe Thurston: And the way we measure that is by thinking about who participate, looking at who participates, and then who prevails and decision making and who prevails was the one that we sort of say is influential right, particularly if
Chloe Thurston: There is a difference it a difference in like the state of preferences of outcome between those two actors. This is different from the second dimension, right, which is about control of the agenda.
Chloe Thurston: They're given to define success influence over what issue you're powerful if you have influence over the issues are alternatives that are considered who participates.
Chloe Thurston: Or what the rules of engagement are so then how does that get mentored that gets measured by thinking by looking at the potential issues.
Chloe Thurston: Or thinking about them. I guess and alternatives.
Chloe Thurston: This requires investigating non decisions and non events which is already a different bar because now you have to think about things that aren't necessarily as visible as the first dimension of power.
Chloe Thurston: This gets us to the third dimension. Right. And the one that I said was sort of the most controversial and this is the idea of the, you know, the manipulation of interest.
Chloe Thurston: When a effects be in a manner, contrary to these interests by influencing shaping or determining who's very wants. And as I mentioned at the beginning of the class might be directly observable, but often it's not. And so with that I'm going to talk about a case of the NRA and
Chloe Thurston: This case was prepared by a former TA for this class Matt look home, who is now a professor at Barnard, and he has awesome book coming out that this is based on
Chloe Thurston: On sort of the politics of the NRA and if anyone sort of follows the recent news. There are a lot of changes right now in the organization.
Chloe Thurston: But I want to talk about, sort of, you know, recent years and decades and NRA organizing sort of why this is a good case to think about different forms.
Chloe Thurston: So, okay, back to the case that so many of you probably know this.
Chloe Thurston: But Phil anyone in the NRA is the most prominent supporter of gun rights in the United States, and it's strongly opposed his gun control laws and fight against them seriously. We'll get to this.
Chloe Thurston: It has about 5 million members. And it's widely considered to be one of the most powerful interest groups in Washington. And as I mentioned, this might be changing with some challenges, financial and legal that the organization has but
Chloe Thurston: This hasn't been the case for a long time and actually speaks to some some important issues that I framed the beginning of this this class for today with. So let's think about gun control for a second us, the lack of gun control is actually kind of puzzling. If you think about it.
Chloe Thurston: The US is characterized by horrific mass shootings and I'm sure you are unfortunately aware of these and these are not new. And they're not rare.
Chloe Thurston: And while the they these types of shootings here command the most media attention. They actually comprise only a small part of the approximately 30,000 annual firearm related deaths in the US and this is Vegas and Sandy Hook.
Chloe Thurston: So, moreover,
Chloe Thurston: The American public because also wanted more gun control, since the very beginning, pulling on this issue.
Chloe Thurston: Which you know might surprise you. And you see that there you know this continues and what appears to be the earliest polling on guns.
Chloe Thurston: Gallup found in 1938 that 80% of Americans almost favorite gun control and between that and now the polls haven't really changed that much.
Chloe Thurston: Support for gun control peaked at 84% in most years it's about 80% as you can see here, and sort of these are, this is listing sort of specific types of of policy.
Chloe Thurston: Even during a period right now of historic probably party polarization strong majorities of Democrats and Republicans support most of these policy measures here so
Chloe Thurston: This is an interesting puzzle. And I think it points to some of the
Chloe Thurston: You know dilemmas of interest group mobilizing but. So the most common explanation, though, the situation is that the NRA uses its political influence to defeat proposed legislation and this is what
Chloe Thurston: Look home writes about in his book, which I recommend everyone get but it won't come out officially until next year.
Chloe Thurston: But, you know, why is it influential and how does it influence policy and how you know can those very sort of abstract dimensions of power.
Chloe Thurston: You know, how can we see those and use those to sort of think about the the NRA or, you know, a different group. So there's evidence that supports this claim right that the NRA, you know, uses its brute political power to defeat legislation.
Chloe Thurston: But we should dig it, you know, into exactly why the NRA has been successful politically and how it keeps that success.
Chloe Thurston: And I think that is you know where these dimensions of power actually helped to illuminate things instead of sort of just thinking about, you know, within view of like
Chloe Thurston: Quid pro quo vote buying which doesn't necessarily tell us very much. And isn't generally you know what we even see
Chloe Thurston: And we can think about different ways that these dimensions of power manifest themselves.
Chloe Thurston: So, so I want to walk through how these might fit through each dimension of power. And so the first is relevant. If we think about you know when a gun control bill was introduced by legislator.
Chloe Thurston: And so when this happens, the NRA has to try to persuade legislators to vote against it. And there are two ways to do this. And so one is by trying to mobilize people into action.
Chloe Thurston: To oppose the bill and then the others to contact legislators directly into talking out of voting for the little again sort of persuasion. Right. I mean, so the NRA is very effective at that first strategy of mobilization.
Chloe Thurston: But there we go. Um, it might be actually kind of risky to even get to the point where that law is being voted on right as I pointed out before,
Chloe Thurston: Public opinion kind of supports gun control legislation so it might not be great to put that to a congressional that might be more effective to keep gun control off of the legislative agenda all together. And so the shots night or reading
Chloe Thurston: Speaks to this again, you know, powerful groups might want to avoid what he calls the socialite realization of conflict in which a political debate draws
Chloe Thurston: The participation of the public at large. Again, we see where the public stands on this particular issue. So it might be a good idea to not have
Chloe Thurston: Generate too much attention to it. And so this is one of the other activities that the NRA and many other organizations, try to do
Chloe Thurston: And it's really good at mobilizing its members. But again, wants to avoid having to do that. And so it can do this by doing things like electing candidates are helping to elect candidates who just genuinely agree with them.
Chloe Thurston: By providing candidates with resources with votes. It has a large membership as an option to a lesser extent with campaign money.
Chloe Thurston: And then if lots of legislators agree. You know who already happened to be in alignment with NRA is for us. It's much easier to keep things off of the agenda in first place
Chloe Thurston: So beyond this well known sort of dimensions look home in his book sort of introduces a third
Chloe Thurston: And this is the idea is kind of built on this idea of the third dimension of power through influencing politics by altering the preference and pager kind of ours.
Chloe Thurston: And so what he points out, and shows empirically, is that the organization sort of over decades helped to generate a social identity around entrepreneurship that connected it all to politics.
Chloe Thurston: It increase the intensity of group members preferences and gun control and increase their political participation and made them really, you know, robust voting bloc as well.
Chloe Thurston: And that main sort of idea, the social identity that was being built was one that framed gun control, not just as an inconvenience, but as a threat to identities and values of gun owners.
Chloe Thurston: Yeah.
Chloe Thurston: So I'm a gun owner identity then just a bit sorry when they were about two minutes so
Chloe Thurston: They're much more politically active and gun control components are more likely to join the NRA then gun control proponents are to join organizations that push for regulation.
Chloe Thurston: And they're more likely to be single issue voters, they'll vote on this issue again as welcome showed because they saw this as, you know, a genuine threat to their identities and values.
Chloe Thurston: So the thing that's interesting about this is that by influencing gun owners using this third piece of power, if you want to, you know, consider it that
Chloe Thurston: The NRA is actually able to enhance its influence on other dimensions of power.
Chloe Thurston: So if a gun control laws proposed for example, they can appeal to the social identity related to gun ownership that many
Chloe Thurston: members share which then motivates them to contact the representatives in opposition to the law. So it also is the sort of outside lobbying strategy that gets represented that gets the voters to
Chloe Thurston: To exert other pressure right so this enhances its influence on the first dimension of power.
Chloe Thurston: And then similarly, this identity also helps the NRA on the second dimension of power.
Chloe Thurston: Again legislators can anticipate the reaction. They'll get from gun owners if they advanced gun control bill.
Chloe Thurston: And that reduces the likelihood of them taking action this identity means gun owners are just unwilling to ever vote for candidates who will support on control. We see this correctly.
Chloe Thurston: And that helps the NRA to continue to elect program legislators, which has a sort of cycle of reinforcement. Right.
Chloe Thurston: So that's about where I'm going to stop because we only have a minute, but I just want to conclude really quickly, um, you know, so, you know, what does this case. Tell us about interest rate influence
Chloe Thurston: Well, the not so good news. First is that the NRA is able to consistently prevent the passage of gun control, right, despite the fact that most Americans wanted
Chloe Thurston: And minority people oppose what pose it, namely NRA members feel very intensely about this preferences. So those of us cannot lead others second sort of piece of news that might be a little bit better.
Chloe Thurston: Is you know that this is a mass based non business interest group in terms of, you know, 5 million numbers that can influence government policy under certain conditions.
Chloe Thurston: And this is something that you know the TOEFL, for example, would say is actually a very good sign right in that sense that grassroots mobilization is
Chloe Thurston: Is creating a lot of these outcomes, even if they are against sort of the preferences of large majorities. So then that raises a different question. I'm going to end on this.
Chloe Thurston: And there's yeah
Chloe Thurston: But, you know, so should we encourage more groups to form one of the things that I had you read for today that will hopefully talk about Inception is a proposal by lead Rotman
Chloe Thurston: Who suggests doing just that. Right. Instead of it's kind of like a different sort of Madison perspective, instead of, you know, beyond
Chloe Thurston: Instead of getting rid of these groups and making it more difficult for them to influence politics. Let's just make it more that easier for other groups to emerge.
Chloe Thurston: Let's think of different subsidies that we can you know provide. So that would happen so that there might be more competition and counter balancing. So I'm going to stop there. I'm sorry. One minute over. But thank you for staying and I will see you guys on Tuesday.
Have a great weekend.
Andrew Neville: Thank you.